Plutonium | Radioactive Element, Nuclear Fuel | Britannica Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Login Subscribe to Britannica Premium SUBSCRIBE TO PREMIUM Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos Today in History One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society History Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Society & Social Issues Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Insects & Other Invertebrates Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Image Galleries Podcasts Summaries Top Questions Lists and Stories Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos plutonium Introduction References & Edit History Quick Facts & Related Topics Images Quizzes 118 Names and Symbols of the Periodic Table Quiz Facts You Should Know: The Periodic Table Quiz Contents Science Chemistry CITE verified Cite While every effort has been made to follow citation style rules, there may be some discrepancies. Please refer to the appropriate style manual or other sources if you have any questions. Select Citation Style MLA APA Chicago Manual of Style Copy Citation Share Share Share to social media Facebook X URL https://www.britannica.com/science/plutonium Feedback External Websites Feedback Corrections? Updates? Omissions? Let us know if you have suggestions to improve this article (requires login). Feedback Type Select a type (Required) Factual Correction Spelling/Grammar Correction Link Correction Additional Information Other Your Feedback Submit Feedback Thank you for your feedback Our editors will review what you’ve submitted and determine whether to revise the article. External Websites National Center for Biotechnology Information - Toxicological Profile for Plutonium. Chemicool - Plutonium Frontiers - Frontiers in Nuclear Engineering - Editorial: Plutonium legacy storage and degradation Atomic Heritage Foundation - Plutonium World Nuclear Association - Plutonium Lenntech - Plutonium Live Sience - Facts About Plutonium IOPscience - Journal of Radiological Protection - Distribution of plutonium and radium in the human heart Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry - Public Health Statement for Plutonium Washington State Department of Health - Plutonium Institute for Energy and Environmental Research - Plutonium Royal Society of Chemistry - Periodic Table - Plutonium plutonium Properties of plutonium. (more) plutonium chemical element Ask Anything Homework Help Also known as: Pu Written by Lester Morss Adjunct Professor, Department of Chemistry, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland. Lester Morss Fact-checked by Britannica Editors Encyclopaedia Britannica's editors oversee subject areas in which they have extensive knowledge, whether from years of experience gained by working on that content or via study for an advanced degree.... Britannica Editors Last updated June 6, 2026 • History Britannica AI Ask Anything Table of Contents Table of Contents Ask Anything plutonium (Pu) , radioactive chemical element of the actinoid series of the periodic table , atomic number 94. It is the most important transuranium element because of its use as fuel in certain types of nuclear reactors and as an ingredient in nuclear weapons . Plutonium is a silvery metal that takes on a yellow tarnish in air . The element was first detected (1941) as the isotope plutonium-238 by American chemists Glenn T. Seaborg , Joseph W. Kennedy, and Arthur C. Wahl, who produced it by deuteron bombardment of uranium -238 in the 152-cm (60-inch) cyclotron at Berkeley , California. The element was named after the then planet Pluto . Traces of plutonium have subsequently been found in uranium ores, where it is not primeval but naturally produced by neutron irradiation . All plutonium isotopes are radioactive. The most important is plutonium-239 because it is fissionable, has a relatively long half-life (24,110 years), and can be readily produced in large quantities in breeder reactors by neutron irradiation of plentiful but nonfissile uranium-238. Critical mass (the amount that will spontaneously explode when brought together) must be considered when handling quantities in excess of 300 grams ( 2 / 3 lb). The critical mass of plutonium-239 is only about one-third that of uranium-235 . Discover how ordinary objects work, and expand your understanding of the familiar. SIGN UP Thank you for signing up! " height="20" alt="HEW Logo"> Thank you for signing up!" Back to homepage By clicking "Sign Up", you consent to the Britannica Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . Britannica Quiz Facts You Should Know: The Periodic Table Quiz Plutonium and all elements of higher atomic number are radiological poisons because of their high rate of alpha emission and their specific absorption in bone marrow . The maximum amount of plutonium-239 that can be indefinitely maintained in an adult without significant injury is 0.008 microcurie (equal to 0.13 microgram [1 microgram = 10 −6 gram]). Longer-lived isotopes plutonium-242 and plutonium-244 are valuable in chemical and metallurgical research. Plutonium-238 is an alpha-emitting isotope that emits a negligible amount of gamma rays ; it can be manufactured to harness its heat of radioactive decay to operate thermoelectric and thermionic devices that are small, lightweight, and long-lived (the half-life of plutonium-238 is 87.7 years). The power produced from plutonium-238 alpha decay (approximately 0.5 watt per gram) has been used to provide spacecraft electrical power (radioisotope thermoelectric generators [RTGs]) and to provide heat for batteries in spacecraft, such as in the Curiosity rover. Key People: Glenn T. Seaborg Cyril Stanley Smith Harrison Brown (Show more) Related Topics: chemical element nuclear reactor plutonium-240 plutonium-238 plutonium-239 (Show more) See all related content Plutonium exhibits six forms differing in crystal structure and density (allotropes); the alpha form exists at room temperature. It has the highest electrical resistivity of any metallic element (145 microhm-centimetres). Chemically reactive, it dissolves in acids and can exist in four oxidation states as ions of characteristic colour in aqueous solution: Pu 3+ , blue-lavender; Pu 4+ , yellow-brown; PuO 2 + , pink; PuO 2 2+ , yellow or pink-orange; and Pu 7+ , green. Very many compounds of plutonium have been prepared, often starting from the dioxide (PuO 2 ), the first compound of any synthetic element to be separated in pure form and in weighable amounts (1942). Element Properties atomic number 94 stablest isotope 244 melting point 639.5 °C (1,183.1 °F) boiling point 3,235 °C (5,855 °F) specific gravity (alpha) 19.84 (25 °C) oxidation states +3, +4, +5, +6 electron configuration of gaseous atomic state [Rn]5 f 6 7 s 2 Lester Morss
Encyclopedia Britannica | Britannica Explore Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Login Subscribe to Britannica Premium SUBSCRIBE TO PREMIUM History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos Today in History One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society History Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Society & Social Issues Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Insects & Other Invertebrates Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Image Galleries Podcasts Summaries Top Questions Lists and Stories Britannica Kids Search Britannica Click here to search Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos Trending The Odyssey Air Pollution Donald Trump The Catcher in the Rye British Open Colobus Monkey Economics of the World Cup July 16, 2026 Great Snakes! Today is World Snake Day, a celebration of those often misunderstood and maligned reptiles . Although some 600 to 700 of the more than 4,000 species of snakes are venomous , only slightly more than 200 species are capable of inflicting a lethal bite . Yet for millennia snakes have loomed large in the public imagination, whether as a religious symbol or a jump scare in a film. Learn the truth about snakes, whose lineage stretches back at least 167 million years. (Click on a snake below to enlarge.) Slide into the World of Snakes Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. What Is the Difference Between Venomous and Poisonous? © Digital Vision/Getty Images 9 of the World’s Deadliest Snakes © Heiko Kiera/Fotolia Discover More Quiz: Vipers, Cobras, Boas…Oh My! Snakes and 5 Other Animals Used in War Dawn of the Atomic Age On this day in 1945, the first atomic bomb was tested in the New Mexico desert. Known as the Trinity test , it marked a turning point in human history, forever changing warfare , science , and international politics . The Manhattan Project The Trinity test was the culmination of the top secret Manhattan Project , a U.S. wartime effort to develop the world’s first nuclear weapons . Scientific director J. Robert Oppenheimer led a team of thousands of scientists, engineers , and military personnel. The first nuclear explosion Conducted near Alamogordo , the Trinity test produced an explosion equivalent to about 20,000 tons of TNT . The plutonium bomb, known as the “Gadget,” relied on nuclear fission , a chain reaction that split atomic nuclei and released an immense amount of energy . Reflecting on the explosion years later, Oppenheimer recalled a line from the Bhagavad Gita : “Now I am become Death, the destroyer of worlds.” Hiroshima and Nagasaki Less than a month later, the United States dropped atomic bombs on Hiroshima (August 6) and Nagasaki (August 9), Japan . The bombings hastened the end of World War II and remain the only wartime use of nuclear weapons. Jack Aeby/Los Alamos National Laboratory FIFA World Cup Biggest Controversies Zinedine Zidane’s headbutt, the battle of Santiago, and more. Greatest Upsets From dream runs to titanic blowouts. Hat Trick Heroes Only four players have scored more than one hat trick. The Agony and Ecstasy of Football Fandom Norway’s “Viking Row,” England’s “Wonderwall,” and other chants. Investing Trading Retirement Personal Finance Finance & the Economy Companies The economics of drought How do crude oil prices affect gasoline prices? Members only: Alternative investments may be coming to your 401(k) Venmo and how splitting the bill changed finance Popular ProCon Debate Topics Fireworks Should Fireworks Be Banned? Electric Vehicles Is Driving an Electric Vehicle Good? Climate Change How Can We Best Address Climate Change? Zoos Should Zoos Exist? Featured Games See All Quordle Can you solve four words at once? The Loop A picture puzzle game Tagline - NEW All you need is seven letters Reunion A daily word puzzle Tightrope A daily trivia game Blossom Pick the best words Octordle The party starts at eight Revealed Uncover something interesting The Missing Letter A daily crossword with a twist Pilfer A delightful ruthless word game Victordle Play head-to-head! Sudoku Your daily logic challenge Trending Quizzes See All Quizzes The American Revolution Spurred by Great Britain’s taxation without fair representation, this political uprising led to the formation of the United... Football (Soccer): Fact or Fiction? How much do you know about the world’s most popular sport? From the FIFA World Cup to the proper throw-in technique, take... Taylor Swift Are you a die-hard T-Swift fan? Test your knowledge about the pop princess with this quiz. I Am the Greatest (Athlete) Think you know a lot about famous athletes? This quiz might get your GOAT. U.S. Presidents Facts Who was the first U.S. president to live in the White House? How many presidents were born before the U.S. became a country?... Famous Novels, First Lines Quiz Can you identify these novels by their famous first lines? Name That Fish! Time to get taken to school. First Ladies of the United States Quiz They have been hostesses, helpers, advisers, gatekeepers, guardians, confidantes, and sometimes formidable powers behind... 90s Music Quiz During the ’90s, reggae, contemporary R&B, alternative rock, and hip-hop dominated the popular music scene. It was a period... American Civil War: Who Won Which Battles? While you probably know the Battles of Gettysburg and Antietam, do you remember who were the victors? Take this quiz to test... Featured Videos See All Videos What Does Bastille Day Celebrate? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. What Does Bastille Day Celebrate? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Did Marie-Antoinette Say “Let Them Eat Cake”? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The True Story of Napoleon Bonaparte Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. What Happened During the Reign of Terror? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. What Was Robespierre's Role in the French Revolution? Britannica Premium Subscription Unlock Exclusive Content! Subscribe to Britannica Premium and unlock our entire database of the most trusted content in the world today. SUBSCRIBE Explore Britannica History & Society Major Events of 2026 Five Stories of the Wrongfully Accused Science & Tech When Is the Next Full Moon? Why Are Cruise Ships Prone to Outbreaks? Biographies Savannah Guthrie Deaths in 2026 Animals & Nature 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms The Perils of an Early Spring Geography & Travel 5 Transit Stations Worth Seeing Strait of Hormuz Arts & Culture 2026 FIFA World Cup 50 Greatest Men's Football Players Calculators Mortgage Payment Calculator Estimate your monthly mortgage payments with our free mortgage calculator. Account for interest rates, compound frequency and pay back schedule. Compound Interest Calculator Compounding means getting returns on your previous returns plus your initial investment. Learn how to grow your savings with our compound interest calculator. Percentage Increase Calculator Calculate the increase from one value to another with our free percentage increase calculator. Evaluate population growth, inflation, stock values and more. Retirement Income Calculator Are you on track for retirement? Use our free retirement calculator to help determine how much you'll need to save each year to retire at your desired age. Time Value of Money (TVM) Calculator The time value of money (TVM) principle asserts that the same amount of money is worth more now than in the future. Use our TVM calculator to estimate future value, present value & more. A Britannica Newsletter Discover the events that shaped the world in a daily newsletter, straight from our editors. SIGN UP Thank you for signing up! By clicking "Sign Up for Free ", you consent to the Britannica Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . Our Sites Britannica Kids Merriam-Webster School & Library Melingo Britannica Books Escola Britannica English-Arabic Nglish Sp-En Translation Britannica Merch International Australia Brazil China India Japan Latin America United Kingdom Content & Editorial Encyclopaedia Britannica's Syndication API International Publishing Site Map New Articles Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Advertising Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity Do Not Sell My Info ©2026 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
History & Society | Britannica Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Login Subscribe to Britannica Premium SUBSCRIBE TO PREMIUM Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos Today in History One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society History Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Society & Social Issues Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Insects & Other Invertebrates Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Image Galleries Podcasts Summaries Top Questions Lists and Stories Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos History & Society Major Events of 2026 Our timeline highlights some of the notable developments of the year. © XNY/Star Max—GC Images/Getty Images Newsday/Newspapers.com Five Stories of the Wrongfully Accused Learn about the Central Park Five and other cases of people wrongfully accused. Newsday/Newspapers.com Popular Was the Moon Landing Fake? 2026 Iran War 500 Years of the Mughal Empire Dunkirk Evacuation Editor's Picks A Brief History of White House Construction The changes to the White House undertaken by Pres. Donald Trump during his second term may seem stunning to those who think that the White House of today is how it has always been. The reality is that in its more-than-200-year history, the People’s House has undergone changes necessitated by How Did the Tradition of Wedding Rings Start? When Taylor Swift said yes to Kansas City Chiefs tight end Travis Kelce in August 2025, it seemed as if all the megastar’s romantic anthems were coming true. And by proposing with what fans quickly identified as a dazzling Old Mine-cut diamond set on a gold mount, Kelce joined a long tradition of Timeline of the American Civil Rights Movement The civil rights movement came to national prominence in the United States during the mid-1950s and continued to challenge racial segregation and discrimination through the 1960s. Many organizations, notably the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), headed by Martin Luther King, Jr., the Drone Warfare in the 21st Century Uncrewed air vehicles (UAVs), colloquially known as drones, have existed since the First World War. Throughout the 20th century they remained something of a niche capability, performing limited surveillance and intelligence roles, notably during such conflicts as the Vietnam War. UAVs were also What’s Inside the Great Pyramid? According to Napoleonic legend, the future emperor of France emerged from Egypt’s Great Pyramid pale and shaken, having spent hours alone in the King’s Chamber. He never revealed what had rattled him, but supposedly the episode changed his life. Whether or not the story is true, it certainly Roswell incident Roswell incident, events surrounding the crash and recovery of a U.S. Army Air Forces high-altitude balloon in 1947 near Roswell, New Mexico, which became the centre of a conspiracy theory involving UFOs and extraterrestrials. The U.S. military fostered the intrigue by initially claiming that the 9 Worst Generals in History Alexander, Napoleon, Rommel. Military greatness can most easily be defined by comparison. These battlefield bumblers serve to provide that contrast. list, worst generals, Lee, Confederate, World War I, ancient Rome, Civil War, American Civil War, World War II, NapoleonThis entire list could be Which Religion Is the Oldest? Adherents hold that Hinduism—one of the principal faiths in the modern world, with about one billion followers—is the world’s oldest religion, with complete scriptural texts dating back 3,000 years. The oral tradition that gave rise to the Mahabharata, for example, probably dates to about 850 BCE, Spotlight: World War I The international conflict was virtually unprecedented in the slaughter, carnage, and destruction it caused, embroiling most of Europe along with Russia, the U.S., the Middle East, and other regions. WWI led to the fall of four great imperial dynasties, resulted in the Bolshevik Revolution, and, by destabilizing Europe, laid the groundwork for WWII. WWI: From the First Shots Fired to the Last 8 Questions About WWI Answered Why and How WWI Began Quizzes World War II Quiz Test your military intelligence. That Swinging ’60s Quiz If bell-bottoms and Beatlemania are your bag, this is the quiz for you. Women in Power Quiz Empresses, queens, prime ministers, and more—throughout history there have been many notable women in positions of power. Take this quiz to find out more about them. Emperors and Empresses from Around the (Non-Roman) World Quiz You may know the emperors of ancient Rome, but do you know emperors and empresses from China, Russia, the Holy Roman Empire, and elsewhere? Take this quiz to find out. Videos The Real History of the Illuminati Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The Real History of the Illuminati Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Did Rye Bread Cause the Salem Witch Trials? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The Political History of the Term “Asian American” Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. How One Billion People Vote in India Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The 250-Year-Old History of American Mail Galleries Castles World Cup Kings and Queens of Britain Notre-Dame de Paris Women of World War I Skyscrapers Featured Categories War 7 Deadliest Weapons in History The earliest known purpose-built weapons in human history date to the Bronze Age. Maces, which were little more than rocks mounted on sticks, had questionable value as hunting tools, but they were superbly suited for smashing the bones and skulls of other humans. Later in the Bronze Age, the sword The War of a Thousand Days The War of a Thousand Days, (1899–1903), Colombian civil war between Liberals and Conservatives that resulted in between 60,000 and 130,000 deaths, extensive property damage, and national economic ruin. The Liberal Party represented coffee plantation owners and import-export merchants who favoured 9 Questions About the American Civil War Answered The American Civil War was fought from 1861 to 1865 between the United States and 11 Southern states that seceded from the Union and formed the Confederate States of America. The questions and answers in this list are taken from the Top Questions sections of the articles on the American Civil War, Does Trench Warfare Still Exist? The phrase “trench warfare” immediately conjures images of the mud and slaughter of the Western Front during World War I. Millions died in fruitless offensives that saw men “go over the top” into withering machine gun fire. Ultimately, inventions such as tanks and airplanes allowed troops to move History's Mysteries Nazca Lines Nazca Lines, groups of geoglyphs, large line drawings that appear, from a distance, to be etched into Earth’s surface on the arid Pampa Colorada (“Coloured Plain” or “Red Plain”), northwest of the city of Nazca in southern Peru. They extend over an area of nearly 190 square miles (500 square km). 9 Mysterious Disappearances of People Other Than Amelia Earhart It turns out that a number of people throughout history have mysteriously disappeared. Some were famous when they went missing and became even more legendary afterward, and some reached celebrity status simply because they disappeared. Here are nine strange tales of people (aside from Amelia The Lost Colony of Roanoke In 1587 a small colony was founded on an island off the eastern coast of North America. The settlement would have been the first permanent English colony in the New World, had the settlers not disappeared owing to unknown circumstances. The lost colony of Roanoke is one of the most notorious Voynich manuscript Voynich manuscript, illustrated manuscript written in an unknown language and thought to have been created in the 15th or 16th century. It is named after antiquarian bookseller Wilfrid Voynich, who purchased it in 1912. Scholars and scientists have sought to decipher the text since the manuscript Ancient Civilizations Mali Mali, trading empire that flourished in western Africa from the 13th to the 16th century. The Mali empire developed from the state of Kangaba, on the upper Niger River east of the Fouta Djallon, and is said to have been founded before 1000 ce. The Malinke inhabitants of Kangaba acted as middlemen Indus civilization Indus civilization, the earliest known urban culture of the Indian subcontinent. The nuclear dates of the civilization appear to be about 2600–1900 bce, although the southern sites may have lasted later into the 2nd millennium bce. Among the world’s three earliest civilizations—the other two are Druid Druid, member of the learned class among the ancient Celts. They acted as priests, teachers, and judges. The earliest known records of the Druids come from the 3rd century bce. Their name may have come from a Celtic word meaning “knower of the oak tree.” Very little is known for certain about the Achaemenid Empire Achaemenid Empire, (559–330 bce), ancient Iranian empire founded and ruled over by a line of Persian kings thought to be descended from the eponymous ancestor Achaemenes (Persian Hakhamanish). The early members of this dynasty were kings of Anshan in modern Fars. The conquests of Cyrus II (the A Britannica Newsletter Discover the events that shaped the world in a daily newsletter, straight from our editors. SIGN UP Thank you for signing up! By clicking "Sign Up for Free ", you consent to the Britannica Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Advertising Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity Do Not Sell My Info ©2026 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
Science & Tech | Britannica Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Login Subscribe to Britannica Premium SUBSCRIBE TO PREMIUM Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos Today in History One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society History Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Society & Social Issues Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Insects & Other Invertebrates Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Image Galleries Podcasts Summaries Top Questions Lists and Stories Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos Science & Tech When Is the Next Full Moon? There are 13 full moons in 2026. NASA Goddard © Yoshiyuki Kaneko/Dreamstime.com Why Are Cruise Ships Prone to Outbreaks? Hantavirus caused one of the more recent disease outbreaks on a cruise ship. © Yoshiyuki Kaneko/Dreamstime.com Popular How Much Does a Human Brain Weigh? What Color Is the Universe? Why Does Head Hair Grow Indefinitely but Not Body Hair? What Causes a Rainbow? Editor's Picks What Are the Shortest and Longest Binomial Names? First, a quick refresher on binomial names. All organisms, living or extinct, are given a name by biologists to make identification easier across different languages and regions. These are called scientific, or binomial, names. A binomial name has two parts. The first part is the name of the genus, What Causes Thunder After Lightning? Thunder is caused by the rapid expansion of air heated by a lightning discharge. When lightning strikes, it heats the air in its path to temperatures as high as 30,000 °C (54,000 °F). This intense heat causes the air to expand rapidly, creating a shock wave that travels outward. As this shock wave Inventors and Inventions of the Industrial Revolution The Industrial Revolution (1750–1900) forever changed the way people in Europe and the United States live and work. These inventors and their creations were at the forefront of a new society. list, Industrial Revolution, textiles, cotton, wool, thread, yarn, spinning jenny, water frame, spinning 7 Vestigial Features of the Human Body Vestiges are remnants of evolutionary history—“footprints” or “tracks,” as translated from the Latin vestigial. All species possess vestigial features, which range in type from anatomical to physiological to behavioral. More than 100 vestigial anomalies occur in humans. The following list explores Google DeepMind Google DeepMind, artificial intelligence (AI) research laboratory created through the merger of Google AI’s Google Brain division and the tech start-up DeepMind. A subsidiary of Alphabet, Google DeepMind is headquartered in London, with offices in countries including Canada, France, India, Japan, How Many People Have Been to the Moon? Even if you weren’t alive for the first Moon landing on July 20, 1969, you’ve probably seen footage of it, when astronaut Neil Armstrong famously declared, “That’s one small step for [a] man, one giant leap for mankind,” and Buzz Aldrin helped him plant an American flag on the lunar surface. And What Causes a Volcano to Erupt? Volcanic eruptions are among the most stunning phenomena in the natural world. Volcanoes erupt because of the way heat moves beneath Earth’s surface. Heat is conveyed from the planet’s interior to its surface largely by convection—the transfer of heat by movement of a heated fluid. In this case, Indian Women in STEM The decades following India’s independence in 1947 were a formative period for science in the country. Laboratories were established, disciplines took shape, and research began to align with national needs. Women were among those working across medicine, engineering, and other sciences, Spotlight: Ebola On May 17, 2026, the WHO declared a public emergency amid a growing Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Uganda. The last major outbreak occurred in the DRC in 2018 – 20. Learn more about this deadly disease. What Is Ebola? Ebola Outbreak of 2014–16 The Virus Behind the Disease Quizzes Facts You Should Know: The Periodic Table Quiz This quiz is a gas…and a liquid and a solid. Define It: Math Terms Here is your mission, should you choose to accept it: Define the following math terms before time runs out. Parts of a Cell Quiz What is the thin layer that forms the outer boundary of a cell? Where is the site of photosynthesis in a plant cell? Test your knowledge. Take this quiz. Scientists and Their Inventions Quiz From the 16th century onward, the speed of a ship was measured by what English invention? What is an ancient device for measuring time by the gradual flow of water? Test your knowledge. Take the quiz. Videos Watch Earth's Continents Move Adapted from C.R. Scotese, The University of Texas at Arlington Adapted from C.R. Scotese, The University of Texas at Arlington Watch Earth's Continents Move Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. How We Develop New Vaccines Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Why Does the Earth Rotate and Revolve Around the Sun? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Monkeys vs. Apes: What's the Difference? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Why Do We Have Earwax? Galleries NASA’s 50 Most Memorable Photos Coral 7 Wonders of the Natural World Tornadoes Life Meteorites Featured Categories Biology 6 Cell Organelles Think back to your high school biology class. Do you still remember the names and functions of all those little cell parts? A little foggy on the details, perhaps? Here’s a quick refresher course of some of the major eukaryotic organelles to keep your science skills sharp. It might come in handy How Does the Human Body Maintain Its Temperature? People are mammals, and mammals are warm-blooded creatures, capable of maintaining a relatively constant internal temperature regardless of the environmental temperature. Body temperature control is one example of homeostasis—an organism’s self-regulating process that tends to maintain internal 10 Ways of Looking at Cells Since 1665, when English physicist Robert Hooke coined the term cell to describe the microscopic view of cork, scientists have been developing increasingly sophisticated microscopy tools, enabling them to view ever-smaller details of cellular structure. Far from the poor-quality microscopes that 13 Questions About How the Human Body Works Answered How do people breathe in and out? What’s the body’s biggest organ? What causes a bruise? This list answers these questions and others about how the human body works. Earlier versions of these questions and answers first appeared in the second edition of The Handy Answer Book for Kids (and Parents) Astronomy 9 Ghostly Planets Humanity has sent probes to every planet, so we now have a decent idea of what’s in our neighborhood. Even before that, astronomers tracked the movements of the solar system for millennia. Sometimes their eyes (or brains) played tricks. Or did they? What ever happened to the ghost planets, those Why Are Planets Round? The Sun and all eight planets of the solar system are round. Why? The gravitational force of a planet’s mass pulls all of its material toward the center, smoothing out any jarring non-roundness. Many of the smaller bodies of the solar system are not round because their gravity is not enough to How Fast Is the Universe Expanding? The rate at which the universe is expanding is called the Hubble constant, named after astronomer Edwin Hubble, who, with Milton Humason, showed convincingly that the velocity with which a galaxy was moving away from Earth was proportional to its distance. That is, velocity = Hubble constant × Telescopes: Seeing Stars Recently the world’s largest single-dish radio telescope was completed in China. The Five-hundred-metre Aperture Spherical radio Telescope (FAST) is, as its name says, 500 meters (about 1,600 feet) across, which makes it 2.5 times larger than the previous largest single-dish radio telescope, the Mathematics al-Khwārizmī Al-Khwārizmī was a Muslim mathematician and astronomer whose major works introduced Hindu-Arabic numerals and the concepts of algebra into European mathematics. Latinized versions of his name and of his most famous book title live on in the terms algorithm and algebra. Al-Khwārizmī lived in Unusual Counting Systems In our everyday lives, we use a counting system in which we count from 1 to 10. That seems only logical because our hands are already in what is called base 10, which means the number 10 serves as the base of our number system. Each place in a number corresponds to a different power of 10. For Euclid Euclid was the most prominent mathematician of Greco-Roman antiquity, best known for his treatise on geometry, the Elements. Of Euclid’s life nothing is known except what the Greek philosopher Proclus (c. 410–485 ce) reports in his “summary” of famous Greek mathematicians. According to him, Euclid Aryabhata Aryabhata was an astronomer and the earliest Indian mathematician whose work and history are available to modern scholars. He is also known as Aryabhata I or Aryabhata the Elder to distinguish him from a 10th-century Indian mathematician of the same name. He is believed to have lived and worked at A Britannica Newsletter Animal Facts is your daily field guide to discovering more about the animals that share this planet. SIGN UP Thank you for signing up! By clicking "Sign Up", you consent to the Britannica Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Advertising Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity Do Not Sell My Info ©2026 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
Biographies | Britannica Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Login Subscribe to Britannica Premium SUBSCRIBE TO PREMIUM Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos Today in History One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society History Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Society & Social Issues Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Insects & Other Invertebrates Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Image Galleries Podcasts Summaries Top Questions Lists and Stories Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos Biographies Savannah Guthrie This television personality, known for her tenure on The Today Show , experienced a personal tragedy earlier this year when her mother was kidnapped and held for ransom. Gregg DeGuire/Getty Images Deaths in 2026 Here's a look at the notable deaths of 2026, arranged in chronological order. Gregg DeGuire/Getty Images Popular Claudia Sheinbaum Sly and the Family Stone Rihanna Billy Collins Editor's Picks Princess Diana: A Life in Pictures Princess Diana lived a short but remarkable life. Once known as “Shy Di,” she became one of the world’s biggest celebrities, noted for both her glamor and her humanitarian work, and she forever changed the British monarchy. Decades after her death in 1997, Princess Diana’s legacy endures. list, Josephine Baker Josephine Baker was an American-born French dancer and singer who symbolized the beauty and vitality of Black American culture, which took Paris by storm in the 1920s. Baker grew up fatherless and in poverty. Between the ages of 8 and 10 she was out of school, helping to support her family. As a Dalip Singh Saund Dalip Singh Saund was the first Asian American, first Indian American, and first Sikh to be elected to the U.S. Congress. Before serving, he helped change a law so that Indians could become U.S. citizens. Saund was born in Chhajjal Wadi, in the Punjab province of northern India, which at the time Steven Spielberg Steven Spielberg is an American motion-picture director and producer whose diverse films—which range from science-fiction fare, including such classics as Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977) and E.T.: The Extra-Terrestrial (1982), to historical dramas, notably Schindler’s List (1993) and Serena Williams Serena Williams is an American tennis player who revolutionized women’s tennis with her powerful style of play and who won more Grand Slam singles titles (23) than any other woman during the open era. Williams and her elder sister, Venus Williams, emerged in the mid-1990s and soon became dominant al-Khwārizmī Al-Khwārizmī was a Muslim mathematician and astronomer whose major works introduced Hindu-Arabic numerals and the concepts of algebra into European mathematics. Latinized versions of his name and of his most famous book title live on in the terms algorithm and algebra. Al-Khwārizmī lived in Sappho Sappho was a Greek lyric poet greatly admired in all ages for the beauty of her writing style. She ranks with Archilochus and Alcaeus, among Greek poets, for her ability to impress readers with a lively sense of her personality. Her language contains elements from Aeolic vernacular speech and Thomas Jefferson Thomas Jefferson was the draftsman of the Declaration of Independence of the United States and the nation’s first secretary of state (1789–94) and second vice president (1797–1801) and, as the third president (1801–09), the statesman responsible for the Louisiana Purchase. An early advocate of Spotlight: Marie Curie The Polish-born French physicist was famous for her work on radioactivity, becoming the first woman to win a Nobel Prize in 1903 (for Physics), and later becoming the only woman to win a Nobel in two different fields when, in 1911, she won the Nobel Prize for Chemistry. The Extraordinary Life of Marie Curie How Marie Curie Developed Mobile X-ray Machines and Labs in WWI Marie Curie's 1926 Britannica Essay on Radium Quizzes I Am the Greatest (Athlete) Think you know a lot about famous athletes? This quiz might get your GOAT. Name that Painter! Can you tell a Monet from a Manet? Who's on that Stamp? This quiz requires attention—you can't just mail it in. First Ladies of the United States Quiz They have been hostesses, helpers, advisers, gatekeepers, guardians, confidantes, and sometimes formidable powers behind the scenes. How much do you know about the first ladies of the United States? Videos How do mobsters get their nicknames? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. How do mobsters get their nicknames? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. What Made Sammy Davis, Jr., the World's Greatest Entertainer? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Coco Chanel: From quiet luxury to Nazi affiliation Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. David Attenborough: An Explorer's Life Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc. Who is Mae Jemison, the first African American female astronaut? Galleries Charles Darwin Royal Weddings Aristotle Featured Categories Actors Katharine Hepburn Katharine Hepburn was an indomitable American stage and film actress, known as a spirited performer with a touch of eccentricity. She introduced into her roles a strength of character previously considered to be undesirable in Hollywood leading ladies. As an actress, she was noted for her brisk Sidney Poitier Sidney Poitier was a Bahamian American actor, director, and producer who broke the color barrier in the U.S. motion-picture industry by becoming the first African American to win an Academy Award for best actor (for Lilies of the Field [1963]) and the first Black movie star. He also redefined roles Dorothy Dandridge Dorothy Dandridge was an American singer and film actress who was the first black woman to be nominated for an Academy Award for best actress. Dandridge’s mother was an entertainer and comedic actress who, after settling in Los Angeles, had some success in radio and, later, television. The young Laurence Olivier Laurence Olivier was a towering figure of the British stage and screen, acclaimed in his lifetime as the greatest English-speaking actor of the 20th century. He was the first member of his profession to be elevated to a life peerage. The son of an Anglican minister, Olivier attended All Saints Philosophers Avicenna Avicenna was a Muslim physician, the most famous and influential of the philosopher-scientists of the medieval Islamic world. He was particularly noted for his contributions in the fields of Aristotelian philosophy and medicine. He composed the Kitāb al-shifāʾ (Book of the Cure), a vast Plato Plato was an ancient Greek philosopher, student of Socrates (c. 470–399 bce), teacher of Aristotle (384–322 bce), and founder of the Academy. He is best known as the author of philosophical works of unparalleled influence and is one of the major figures of Classical antiquity. Building on the Cornel West Cornel West is an American philosopher, scholar of African American studies, and political activist. His influential book Race Matters (1993) lamented what he saw as the spiritual impoverishment of the African American underclass and critically examined the “crisis” of Black leadership in the Bertrand Russell Bertrand Russell was a British philosopher, logician, and social reformer, a founding figure in the analytic movement in Anglo-American philosophy, and recipient of the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1950. Russell’s contributions to logic, epistemology, and the philosophy of mathematics established Aviation Legends Amelia Earhart Amelia Earhart was an American aviator, one of the world’s most celebrated, who was the first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic Ocean. Her disappearance during a flight around the world in 1937 became an enduring mystery, fueling much speculation. Earhart’s father was a railroad lawyer, and her Charles Lindbergh Charles Lindbergh was an American aviator, one of the best-known figures in aeronautical history, remembered for the first nonstop solo flight across the Atlantic Ocean, from New York City to Paris, on May 20–21, 1927. Lindbergh’s early years were spent chiefly in Little Falls, Minnesota, and in Harriet Quimby Harriet Quimby was an American aviator, the first female pilot to fly across the English Channel. Quimby’s birth date and place are not well attested. (She sometimes claimed 1884 in Arroyo Grande, California.) By 1902, however, it is known that she and her family were living in California, and in Wright brothers Wright brothers, were American inventors and aviation pioneers who achieved the first powered, sustained, and controlled airplane flight (1903). Wilbur Wright (April 16, 1867, near Millville, Indiana, U.S.—May 30, 1912, Dayton, Ohio) and his brother Orville Wright (August 19, 1871, Dayton—January A Britannica Newsletter A fascinating field guide, delivered daily. SIGN UP Thank you for signing up! By clicking "Sign Up", you consent to the Britannica Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Advertising Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity Do Not Sell My Info ©2026 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
Animals & Nature | Britannica Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Login Subscribe to Britannica Premium SUBSCRIBE TO PREMIUM Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos Today in History One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society History Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Society & Social Issues Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Insects & Other Invertebrates Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Image Galleries Podcasts Summaries Top Questions Lists and Stories Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos Animals & Nature 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms Although only a few species of poisonous mushrooms are fatal when ingested, many bear a resemblance to edible species. © Kesu/Fotolia AdstockRF The Perils of an Early Spring The arrival of an early spring is a cause for celebration for many people. But for nature, an early spring is a tricky thing. AdstockRF Popular The Difference Between Alligators and Crocodiles 9 of the World’s Deadliest Spiders Titanosaurs: 8 of the World's Biggest Dinosaurs Do Plants Feel Pain? Editor's Picks cassowary Cassowary, (genus Casuarius), any of several species of large flightless birds of the Australo-Papuan region. Cassowaries are the only members of the family Casuariidae and belong to the order Casuariiformes, which also includes the emu. There are three species (counted by some experts as six), 7 of the World’s Most Poisonous Mushrooms Although only a few of the 70-80 species of poisonous mushrooms are actually fatal when ingested, many of these deadly fungi bear an unfortunate resemblance to edible species and are thus especially dangerous. Read on to learn more about these terrifyingly lethal mushrooms. list, mushrooms, fungi, coral Coral, any of a variety of invertebrate marine organisms of the class Anthozoa (phylum Cnidaria) that are characterized by skeletons—external or internal—of a stonelike, horny, or leathery consistency. The term coral is also applied to the skeletons of those animals, particularly to those of the How Deadly Are Australia’s Animals? Even more than for its gorgeous opera house, sandy beaches, or colourful reefs, Australia has cemented its reputation as home to some of the world’s deadliest animals. Or, if you believe the rumours, maybe even all of the world’s deadliest animals. The numbers tell a different story. It is 6 Real-Life Man-Eating Animals Humans may be this planet’s dominant species, but our superior intellect doesn’t protect us from occasionally falling prey to larger animals—the so-called man-eaters. Here are a few examples through history. list, man-eating animals, dangerous, danger, human-eating, tigers, lions, leopards, Do Carnivorous Plants Eat Their Prey? The ominous-looking Venus flytrap is one of the most famous carnivorous plants, and its snapping traps have fascinated many a curious child (or adult). But the Venus flytrap is just one member of a remarkable group. There are more than 600 carnivorous plant species, and the ability to catch and 9 Animals That Look Like Leaves Mimicry, in which an organism resembles an unrelated species, is one of the great marvels of evolution. Leaf mimicry is an especially clever form of camouflage. For some animals, looking like a leaf serves as protection from hungry predators. For others, it is a useful way to wait in plain sight shoebill Shoebill, (Balaeniceps rex), large African wading bird, a single species that constitutes the family Balaenicipitidae (order Balaenicipitiformes, Ciconiiformes, or Pelecaniformes). The species is named for its clog-shaped bill, which is an adaptation for catching and holding the large, slippery Spotlight: Brown Bears These shaggy-haired bears, native to Europe, Asia, and North America, include species such as the Grizzly and the Kodiak bear, which weighs up to 720kg (1,600 pounds) and is often considered the world's largest carnivore. All About the Brown Bear Family Watch as Hungry Brown Bears Catch Pacific Salmon Enter the World of Kodiak Bears Quizzes Deadliest Animals Quiz Do you know which species of shark is most likely to attack a human? Or what animal has the strongest bite? Name That Flower! Can you tell the difference between a lilac and a hyacinth? Fruit or Vegetable? A Quiz How to be a smarty-pants in the produce aisle. Moms of the Animal Kingdom Quiz The mother of all animal quizzes. Videos How chameleons change color—and why Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. How chameleons change color—and why Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Grasshoppers vs. crickets: What's the difference? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Do Carnivorous Plants Actually Eat Their Prey? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The World's Largest Lizard: The Komodo Dragon Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Do Mushrooms Need Sunlight? Galleries Jellyfish Baobab Trees Lions Gymnosperms Turtles Sharks Featured Categories Marine Life Do Sharks Really Die if They Stop Swimming? It’s a widespread belief: If sharks stop swimming, they die. But is that actually true? Let’s find out. If you look at the nurse shark and the tiger shark, this belief is already proven false: these, and a few other shark species, can stop swimming whenever they want. They breathe by way of buccal A Dose of Dolphin-Induced Dopamine: 8 Species of Adorable Cetacean Dolphins are like the Looney Tunes characters of the sea. Perfectly nice in the proper context, they are also klaxon signifiers of bad taste when rendered on t-shirts and human skin. There’s a reason, of course, that these fascinating mammals have such broad appeal. Graceful as gazelles and—due to What’s the Difference Between Seals and Sea Lions? Are seals and sea lions the same animal? Technically, they are in the same taxonomical suborder of pinnipeds (Pinnipedia), which comprises seals, sea lions, and walruses. But seals and sea lions are in different taxonomical families owing to some key anatomical differences. The most notable 10 of the World’s Most Dangerous Fish Many people around the world depend on fishes or products made from fishes for their food and economic livelihood. More than 30,000 different species ply Earth’s oceans and bodies of fresh water. The beauty of many fish species is highlighted in fish stores, aquariums, and in home collections. Some Plants Botanical Sex: 9 Alluring Adaptations Yes, many plants use the birds and the bees to move pollen from one flower to another, but sometimes this “simple act” is not so simple. Some plants have stepped up their sexual game and use explosions, entrapment, or deception to ensure the perpetuation of their species. Learn about these and Do Plants Emit Oxygen and Carbon Dioxide at Night? Photosynthesis is the process by which plants use energy from the sun to make food. They use carbon dioxide from the air and water from the soil to make sugar and oxygen. Most plants release oxygen only during the day, when the sun can power photosynthesis. The exceptions to this general rule are 7 Dangerous Plants You Should Never Touch Plants don’t enjoy losing their leaves to herbivores and have evolved a number of ingenious strategies to deter leaf predators. Unfortunately for humans, several of these chemical defenses can cause painful skin reactions. Read on to discover some plants that could burn, blister, or otherwise Do Plants Have Sexes? The idea of “male” and “female” in plants is a bit mysterious to many people, and there are several variations on the theme throughout the plant kingdom. In plants, as with most animals, the male parts are associated with production of sperm, and the female parts are associated with eggs. Thus, in Mammals 7 Questions About Mammals Answered Mammals can do amazing things! This list will answer your questions about flying ones, venomous ones, really fast ones, and smelly ones. Earlier versions of these questions and answers first appeared in the second edition of The Handy Answer Book for Kids (and Parents) by Gina Misiroglu (2010). What’s the Difference Between Bison and Buffalo? It’s easy to understand why people confuse bison and buffalo. Both are large, horned, oxlike animals of the Bovidae family. There are two kinds of bison, the American bison and the European bison, and two forms of buffalo, water buffalo and Cape buffalo. However, it’s not difficult to distinguish Are Cows Really Unable to Walk Down Stairs? It’s a common belief that cows are unable to walk down stairs. Many people think that you can get a cow up stairs but getting it back down isn’t going to happen without getting pretty creative. But is there actually any truth to this? To put it simply: it is very difficult for cows to walk down zebra Zebra, any of three species of strikingly black-and-white striped mammals of the horse family Equidae (genus Equus): the plains zebra (E. quagga), which is found in rich grasslands over much of eastern and southern Africa; Grevy’s zebra (E. grevyi), which lives in arid, sparsely wooded areas in A Britannica Newsletter A fascinating field guide, delivered daily. SIGN UP Thank you for signing up! By clicking "Sign Up", you consent to the Britannica Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Advertising Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity Do Not Sell My Info ©2026 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
Geography & Travel | Britannica Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Login Subscribe to Britannica Premium SUBSCRIBE TO PREMIUM Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos Today in History One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society History Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Society & Social Issues Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Insects & Other Invertebrates Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Image Galleries Podcasts Summaries Top Questions Lists and Stories Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos Geography & Travel 5 Transit Stations Worth Seeing They are often a place to be passed through, not a destination, but these transit stations are worth an extended look. © Joe Ravi/Dreamstsime.com Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Strait of Hormuz This sea channel links the oil-rich Persian Gulf with the Gulf of Oman and the Arabian Sea. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Popular Why Are North and South Korea Divided? Yosemite National Park World's Smallest Countries Why Is Alaska Called the Last Frontier? Editor's Picks suburb Merriam-Webster defines a suburb as “an outlying part of a city or town.” These residential areas that, in the United States, grew significantly after World War II have been heralded as the embodiment of the American Dream as well as criticized as soulless bastions of homogeneity. However they are Sealand Sealand, micronation located roughly 7.5 miles (about 12 km, or 6.5 nautical miles) off the coast of Suffolk, England, in the North Sea. Sealand sits atop Roughs Tower, a steel and concrete platform, one of a series of “sea forts” originally built to defend Great Britain during World War II. Roy 11 Must-See Buildings in Mexico City Mexico City was founded in 1521, on the ruins of Tenochtitlán. It is a densely populated city surrounded on three sides by mountains, and at its heart is a gargantuan public square with a long history. These 11 buildings capture the dynamic spirit of Mexico City’s past and present. Earlier versions Why Is Boston Called “Beantown”? The origin story for Boston’s flavorful nickname is in some ways as old as the city itself. Founded by Puritans from the Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1630, Boston got its name from a hamlet in Lincolnshire, England. The genesis of its Beantown moniker dates to roughly that same time period when National Mall Often referred to as “America’s front yard,” the National Mall has been the site of historic protests, baseball games, and moments of profound national unity. Spanning more than two miles from the Capitol building to the Lincoln Memorial, it is also home to some of the country’s most iconic Yonaguni Monument Yonaguni Monument, underwater rock structure that was discovered in the mid-1980s near Yonaguni Island, Japan. While some believe the ziggurat-like formation is from an ancient city, others argue that it was naturally created. The rectangular monument, which was first detected by a scuba diver, is world’s largest deserts In terms of size, the desert biome is second only to the forest biome on land. The largest deserts are vast, harsh areas characterized by extremely dry conditions, sparse vegetation, and little or no precipitation. The majority of Earth’s hottest deserts are found on the western sides of continents Four Corners Four Corners is the only place in the United States where the borders of four states (Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona, and Utah) meet. The four states adjoin at right angles to one another—hence the name—and the site is a popular tourist attraction. The Four Corners location is marked by a granite Spotlight: Antarctica Antarctica is not only the world's southernmost continent. It is also the world's highest, driest, windiest, coldest, and iciest continent. How icy? There's about 7 million cubic miles of it (or 29 million cubic km), representing about 90 percent of the world's ice and 80 percent of its fresh water. All About the World's Southernmost Continent Video: Protecting the Animals of Antarctica's Ross Sea A Trillion Tons of Antarctica Fell into the Sea Quizzes Which Country Is Larger? Quiz See how these countries measure up. Name That World Flag! Our salute to flags from around the world. Can you name the countries they belong to? Wonders of the World Quiz Covering the ancient, new, and natural—prove you are no one-hit wonder. A World of Food Quiz In what country might you sit down to a smorgasbord? Why is durian fruit banned in several places? Take a trip around the world in this study of global cuisine. Videos What are zip codes? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. What are zip codes? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. The rich history of the Hagia Sophia explained Contunico © ZDF Studios GmbH, Mainz Exploring the biodiversity of Corcovado National Park Contunico © ZDF Studios GmbH, Mainz Exploring Bali, the land of a thousand temples Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. What's Inside the Great Pyramid of Khufu? Galleries Belize Mumbai Great Wall of China Angkor Colorado River Mount Fuji Featured Categories Ancient Ruins Petra Petra, ancient city, center of an Arab kingdom in Hellenistic and Roman times, the ruins of which are in southwest Jordan. The city was built on a terrace, pierced from east to west by the Wadi Mūsā (the Valley of Moses)—one of the places where, according to tradition, the Israelite leader Moses Roman Baths Roman Baths, well-preserved public bathing facility built about 70 CE on the site of geothermal springs in Roman Britain, now in Bath, England, U.K. The hot mineral springs bubble up from the ground at temperatures well above 104 °F (40 °C), and the main one produces more than 300,000 gallons (1.3 Borobudur Borobudur, massive Buddhist monument in central Java, Indonesia, 26 miles (42 km) northwest of Yogyakarta. The Borobudur monument combines the symbolic forms of the stupa (a Buddhist commemorative mound usually containing holy relics), the temple mountain (based on Mount Meru of Hindu mythology), Chan Chan Chan Chan, great ruined and abandoned city, the capital of the Chimú kingdom (c. 1100–1470 ce) and the largest city in pre-Columbian America. It is situated on the northern coast of present-day Peru, about 300 miles (480 km) north of Lima in the Moche valley, between the Pacific Ocean and the city Religious Sites Mahabodhi Temple Mahabodhi Temple, one of the holiest sites of Buddhism, marking the spot of the Buddha’s Enlightenment (Bodhi). It is located in Bodh Gaya (in central Bihar state, northeastern India) on the banks of the Niranjana River. The Mahabodhi Temple is one of the oldest brick temples in India. The original Mount Athos Mount Athos, mountain in northern Greece, site of a semiautonomous republic of Greek Orthodox monks inhabiting 20 monasteries and dependencies (skítes), some of which are larger than the parent monasteries. It occupies the easternmost of the three promontories of the Chalcidice (Khalkidhikí) Pashupatinath Temple Pashupatinath Temple, place of worship in the Kathmandu Valley on the Baghmati River, on the eastern outskirts of the city of Kathmandu, that is the holiest site in Nepal. It is devoted to the Hindu god Shiva in his form as Pashupati, protector of animals. There has been a religious foundation here Dome of the Rock Dome of the Rock, shrine in Jerusalem built by the Umayyad caliph ʿAbd al-Malik ibn Marwān in the late 7th century ce. It is the oldest extant Islamic monument. The structure is situated on a flat elevated plaza known to Muslims as al-Ḥaram al-Sharīf (“The Noble Sanctuary”) and to Jews as the Natural Wonders Niagara Falls Niagara Falls, waterfall on the Niagara River in northeastern North America, one of the continent’s most famous spectacles. The falls lie on the border between Ontario, Canada, and New York state, U.S. For many decades the falls were an attraction for honeymooners and for such stunts as walking Dead Sea Dead Sea, landlocked salt lake between Israel and Jordan in southwestern Asia. Its eastern shore belongs to Jordan, and the southern half of its western shore belongs to Israel. The northern half of the western shore lies within the Palestinian West Bank and has been under Israeli occupation since Uluru/Ayers Rock Uluru/Ayers Rock, giant monolith, one of the tors (isolated masses of weathered rock) in southwestern Northern Territory, central Australia. It has long been revered by a variety of Australian Aboriginal peoples of the region, who call it Uluru. The rock was sighted in 1872 by explorer Ernest Giles Iguaçu Falls Iguaçu Falls, series of cataracts on the Iguaçu River, 14 miles (23 km) above its confluence with the Alto (Upper) Paraná River, at the Argentina-Brazil border. The falls resemble an elongated horseshoe that extends for 1.7 miles (2.7 km)—nearly three times wider than Niagara Falls in North America A Britannica Newsletter Animal Facts is your daily field guide to discovering more about the animals that share this planet. SIGN UP Thank you for signing up! By clicking "Sign Up", you consent to the Britannica Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Advertising Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity Do Not Sell My Info ©2026 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
Arts & Culture | Britannica Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Login Subscribe to Britannica Premium SUBSCRIBE TO PREMIUM Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos Today in History One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society History Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Society & Social Issues Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Insects & Other Invertebrates Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Image Galleries Podcasts Summaries Top Questions Lists and Stories Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos Arts & Culture 2026 FIFA World Cup Discover the teams, format, and controversies of this year's tournament. © Francesco Scaccianoce—UEFA/Getty Images Lars Baron/Getty Images 50 Greatest Men's Football Players Pel é , Maradona, Messi, Ronaldo, and more! Lars Baron/Getty Images Popular What Are Yellow and Red Cards in Football? Football Slang 101 Why Does a Football Swerve? Economics of the World Cup Editor's Picks List of Day Jobs of Famous Writers The life of a writer is often stereotyped as one of self-imposed seclusion, bottomless cups of coffee (or something that comes in a bottle), and thunderous bolts of inspiration. In reality, writing is a job like any other. It takes effort, dedication, and skill to produce a solid piece of writing, Norval Morrisseau Also known by the spirit name Miskwaabik Animiiki (meaning “Copper Thunderbird”) in Anishinaabemowin, Norval Morrisseau is widely considered to be the grandfather of modern Indigenous art in Canada. He is credited with pioneering the contemporary Indigenous pictographic style popularly referred to Freida McFadden Freida McFadden American psychological thriller novelist who is also a practicing physician specializing in brain disorders and injuries. She disclosed her real name as Sara Cohen in April 2026; Freida McFadden is a pseudonym she had adopted to keep her career as an author distinct from her coloratura Coloratura, in opera, an embellished style of singing noted for its dazzling vocal acrobatics, such as fast-moving runs, trills, and leaps, that showcase the performer’s agility and range. The style is used to express heightened emotions, such as excitement, joy, or rage. Coloratura soprano refers What’s the Difference Between Blues and Jazz? Blues and jazz are both profoundly influential African American music styles that developed in the South about the turn of the 20th century. So closely are they related that jazz great Billie Holiday titled her 1956 autobiography Lady Sings the Blues. Yet there are key differences between the two d4vd D4vd is an American singer and songwriter who fused R&B and indie pop in such hit singles as “Romantic Homicide” (2022) and “Locked & Loaded” (2025), the official anthem of the electronic game Fortnite. His rising music career was derailed in 2025, however, when the decomposed and dismembered Wordle • Do you start with the same word every day, or do you vary your opening words? • How long is your streak? • Have you ever solved it in one? If those questions confound you, then you probably are not a regular player of Wordle, a popular web-based word game in which users have six tries to guess a Haunted Summer of 1816 It was a cold and stormy summer. In 1816 Switzerland, near Geneva, violent storms lit up the sky for weeks in June and July. Lake Geneva flooded the region, and animal corpses filled the area’s swollen rivers. Some would call it the “year without a summer,” while others called it the “haunted Spotlight: Impressionism Impressionism comprises the work produced between about 1867 and 1886 by a group of artists, headlined by Claude Monet and Pierre Auguste Renoir , who shared a set of related approaches and techniques. The most conspicuous characteristic was an attempt to accurately and objectively record visual reality in terms of transient effects of light and color. Impressionism: A Timeline The Life and Times of Pierre-Auguste Renoir Get to Know Berthe Morisot's Woman at Her Toilette Quizzes Name That Hat! Quiz Time to put on your thinking cap. Famous Novels, Last Lines Quiz Needless to say, spoiler alert. Guess the Game Quiz Roll the dice and go all in. Iconic Pop Culture Villains Quiz Do you know what famous villain’s costume was inspired by samurai? What bad guy’s middle name is Marvolo? Test your knowledge about pop culture’s dark side with this quiz about iconic villains! Videos How Fred Astaire became a dancer Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. How Fred Astaire became a dancer Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. Watch and listen: How Auto-Tune changes your voice Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. What Is Impressionism? Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc. How Beauty Looking Back Reflects Japanese History Encyclopaedia Britannica, Inc. How Did Opera's Greatest Soprano Lose Her Voice? Galleries Vincent van Gogh Paris Leonardo da Vinci Featured Categories Art 5 Revealing Paintings by Caravaggio The art critic Andrew Graham-Dixon writes of Caravaggio that “[h]e was a violent man, but he lived in violent times, and he was as much sinned against as sinning.” That may be an excuse for a man who was a murderer as well as a hugely influential artist of the late 16th and early 17th centuries, The Group of Seven Remembered Say “Group of Seven,” and most folks will assume you are referring to the organization of the world’s leading industrialized countries, whose annual summit provides the mother of all photo opportunities for the leaders of the U.S., the U.K., France, Germany, Italy, Canada, Japan, and, until its 5 Incredible Native American Artists These five artists have combined their Indigenous roots with revolutionary artistic techniques to preserve their cultures in the face of adversity. Through their various media, they represent themselves, their identity, their families, and their tribes. list, Native American, art, pottery, 10 Modernist Art Movements The turn of the 20th century was a time rife with change, chiefly in the way in which people began to perceive civilization as a whole and its overall goal. The outbreak of World War I, or the supposed War to End All Wars, and the unprecedented devastation that ensued challenged the foundations of Dance Katherine Dunham Katherine Dunham was an American dancer and choreographer who was a pioneer in the field of dance anthropology. Her fieldwork inspired her innovative interpretations of dance in the Caribbean, South America, and Africa. Dunham early became interested in dance. While a student at the University of Savion Glover Savion Glover is an American dancer and choreographer who became known for his unique pounding style of tap dancing, called “hitting.” He brought renewed interest in dance, particularly among youths and minorities. As a young child, Glover displayed an affinity for rhythms, and at age four he began Agnes de Mille Agnes de Mille was an American dancer and choreographer who further developed the narrative aspect of dance and made innovative use of American themes, folk dances, and physical idioms in her choreography of musical plays and ballets. Her father was the playwright William Churchill DeMille, her Mallika Sarabhai Mallika Sarabhai is an Indian classical dancer and choreographer, actress, writer, and social activist known for her promotion of the arts as a vehicle for social change. The daughter of renowned physicist Vikram Sarabhai and dancer and choreographer Mrinalini Sarabhai, she was brought up in a Film Federico Fellini Federico Fellini was an Italian film director who was one of the most celebrated and singular filmmakers of the period after World War II. Influenced early in his career by the Neorealist movement, he developed his own distinctive methods that superimposed dreamlike or hallucinatory imagery upon Ava DuVernay Ava DuVernay is an American director, producer, and writer whose film and television projects explore the African American experience. Among her best-known works are the film Selma (2014), the documentary 13th (2016), and the miniseries When They See Us (2019). DuVernay was the first African David Lynch David Lynch was an American filmmaker and screenwriter who is known for his uniquely disturbing and mind-bending visual work. His films juxtapose the cheerfully mundane with the shockingly macabre and often defy explanation. Lynch’s father was a research scientist with the U.S. Forest Service, and Sofia Coppola Sofia Coppola is an American film director, producer, screenwriter, and fashion designer known best for her films The Virgin Suicides (1999) and Lost in Translation (2003). In 2004 she was the first American woman to be nominated for an Academy Award in the category of best director. Coppola is the A Britannica Newsletter Discover the events that shaped the world in a daily newsletter, straight from our editors. SIGN UP Thank you for signing up! By clicking "Sign Up for Free ", you consent to the Britannica Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Advertising Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity Do Not Sell My Info ©2026 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
Pros and Cons of Debate Topics | Britannica Search Britannica Click here to search Search Britannica Click here to search SUBSCRIBE SUBSCRIBE Login Subscribe to Britannica Premium SUBSCRIBE TO PREMIUM Home History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Games & Quizzes Videos Today in History One Good Fact Dictionary New Articles History & Society History Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Society & Social Issues Science & Tech Health & Medicine Science Technology Biographies Browse Biographies Animals & Nature Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Insects & Other Invertebrates Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Geography & Travel Arts & Culture Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Image Galleries Podcasts Summaries Top Questions Lists and Stories Britannica Kids Ask the Chatbot Games & Quizzes History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Money Videos ProCon Reliable. Nonpartisan. Empowering. Congressional Term Limits Should Term Limits Be Imposed on U.S. Senators and Representatives? Pit Bull Bans Should Breed-Specific Legislation (“Pit Bull Bans”) Be Enacted? Homelessness Are Housing First Policies the Best Solution for Homelessness? ProCon Quizzes See All Quizzes ProCon’s Animal Dissection Quiz ProCon’s Workweek Quiz ProCon’s Minimum Wage Quiz ProCon’s Supreme Court Quiz New & Recently Updated Debates Artificial Intelligence (AI) for Schoolwork Should Students Be Allowed to Use AI for Schoolwork? Climate Change How Can We Best Address Climate Change? Vaping Is Vaping Safer Than Smoking Cigarettes? True Crime Is True Crime Good for Society? Astrology Is Astrology Useful? Geothermal Power Is Geothermal Power a Good Form of Energy? Fireworks Should Fireworks Be Banned? Nuclear Power Is Nuclear Power a Good Form of Energy? Digital Life, Science, & Technology Artificial Intelligence (AI) Is Artificial Intelligence Good for Society? Binge-Watching Is Binge-Watching Good for You? Internet Is the Internet “Making Us Stupid”? Net Neutrality Are Net Neutrality Laws Good for Society? Pokémon GO Has Pokémon GO Been Good for Society? Social Media Is Social Media Good for Society? Space Colonization Should We Colonize Space? TikTok Should TikTok Be Banned? Video Games Should Kids and Teens Be Allowed to Play Violent Video Games? Tablets vs. Textbooks (archived) Should Tablets Replace Textbooks in K-12 Schools? Government & Civics American Socialism Should the United States Become Socialist? Congressional Term Limits Should Term Limits Be Imposed on U.S. Senators and Representatives? D.C. and Puerto Rico Statehood Should Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico Be U.S. States? Filibuster Should the U.S. Senate Keep the Filibuster? Impeachment Explainer What Is Impeachment? Mandatory National Service Should the U.S. Enact Mandatory National Service? National Anthem Explainer Is the U.S. National Anthem Racist? U.S. Supreme Court Should Packing the U.S. Supreme Court Ever Be Considered? ACLU (archived) Is the American Civil Liberties Union Good for America? U.S. Pledge of Allegiance (archived) Should the Words “Under God” Be in the Pledge? Education Animal Dissection Should K–12 Students Dissect Animals in Science Classrooms? Artificial Intelligence (AI) for Schoolwork Should Students Be Allowed to Use AI for Schoolwork? Book Bans Should Parents or Other Adults Be Able to Ban Books From Schools and Libraries? Cell Phones in Schools Should Cell Phones Be Banned in Schools? College Education Is a College Education Worth It? Corporal Punishment Should Corporal Punishment Be Used in K-12 Schools? Free College Should Public College Be Tuition-free? Homework Is Homework Beneficial? School Uniforms Should Students Wear Uniforms? Standardized Tests Do Standardized Tests Improve Education? Student Loan Debt Should Student Loan Debt Be Eliminated via Forgiveness or Bankruptcy? School Vouchers (archived) Should States Have School Voucher Programs? Teacher Tenure (archived) Should Teachers Get Tenure? Health & Medicine Abortion Should Abortion Be Legal? Birth Control Should Birth Control Pills Be Available Over the Counter? MAID: Medical Aid in Dying Should MAID Be Legal? Medical Marijuana Should Medical Marijuana Be Legal? Milk Should Humans Consume Dairy Milk? Obesity Should Obesity Be Treated as a Disease? Prescription Drug Costs Should the U.S. Government Regulate Prescription Drug Prices? School Vaccine Mandates Should Vaccines Be Required for School Attendance? Universal Health Care Should the U.S. Government Provide Universal Health Care? Vaping Is Vaping Safer Than Smoking Cigarettes? Born Gay (archived) Is Sexual Orientation Determined at Birth? Employer Vaccine Mandates (archived) Should Employers Be Able to Mandate Vaccinations? Obamacare (archived) Is Obamacare Good for America? Environment & Animal Rights Alternative Energy Can Alternative Energies Replace Fossil Fuels? Animal Testing Should Animals Be Used for Scientific or Commercial Testing? Cannabidiol (CBD) for Pets Is CBD Good for Pets? Climate Change How Can We Best Address Climate Change? Electric Vehicles Is Driving an Electric Vehicle Good? Fracking Should the United States Continue Fracking? Fur Clothing Bans Should Fur Clothing Be Banned? Genetically Modified Organisms (GMO) Should GMOs be Grown? Geothermal Power Is Geothermal Power a Good Form of Energy? Nuclear Power Is Nuclear Power a Good Form of Energy? Pit Bull Bans Should Breed-Specific Legislation (“Pit Bull Bans”) Be Enacted? Single-Use Plastics Should Single-Use Plastics Be Banned? Vegetarianism Should People Become Vegetarian? Wind Power Is Wind Power a Good Form of Energy? Zoos Should Zoos Exist? Dakota Access Pipeline (archived) Should the Dakota Access Pipeline Be Completed? Elections & Presidents Election Day Should Election Day Be a National Holiday? Electoral College Should the Electoral College Continue to Be Used in U.S. Presidential Elections? Ranked-Choice Voting Is Ranked-Choice Voting the Best Method of Voting? Voting Age Should the U.S. Voting Age Be Lowered to 16? Voting Machines Are Electronic Voting Machines the Best Method for Voting? Voting with Felony Convictions Should People With Felony Convictions Have Their Voting Rights Restored? 2024 Presidential Election (archived) The candidates and the outcome 2020 Presidential Election (archived) The candidates and the outcome 2016 Presidential Election (archived) The candidates and the outcome 2012 Presidential Election (archived) The candidates and the outcome 2008 Presidential Election (archived) The candidates and the outcome Bill Clinton (archived) Was Bill Clinton a Good President? Ronald Reagan (archived) Was Ronald Reagan a Good U.S. President? Society Astrology Is Astrology Useful? Cancel Culture Is Cancel Culture Good for Society? Dress Codes Should Dress Codes Be Implemented and Enforced? Historic Statue Removal Should Historic Statues Be Taken Down? Homelessness Are Housing First Policies the Best Solution for Homelessness? Recreational Marijuana Should Recreational Marijuana Be Legal? Reparations for Slavery Should Reparations Be Paid to the Descendants of Slavery? True Crime Is True Crime Good for Society? Gay Marriage (archived) Should Gay Marriage Be Legal? Sports Cheerleading Is Cheerleading a Sport? Fighting in Hockey Should Fighting Be Allowed in Hockey? Football Should Kids and Teens Be Allowed to Play Tackle Football? Golf Is Golf a Sport? National Anthem Protest Is Kneeling During the U.S. National Anthem an Appropriate Form of Protest? Olympics Is Hosting the Olympics Worth the Cost? Sports and Drugs Should Performance-Enhancing Drugs and Technologies Be Allowed in Sports? College Football Playoffs (archived) Should College Football Have a Playoff System? Paying College Athletes (archived) Should College Athletes Be Paid? Law & Order Police Body Cameras Should Law Enforcement Agents Wear Body Cameras? Constitutional Carry of Guns Should Permitless, “Constitutional Carry” of Guns Be Legal? Death Penalty Should the Death Penalty Be Legal? Defund the Police Should Police Departments Be Defunded, if Not Abolished? Drinking Age Should the Drinking Age Be Lowered from 21? Gun Control Should More Gun Control Laws Be Enacted? Private Prisons Should Prisons Be Privatized? D.A.R.E. (archived) Is the D.A.R.E. Program Good for America’s Kids? Prostitution (archived) Should Prostitution Be Legal? Money & Work Corporate Tax Rate Should the Federal Corporate Income Tax Rate Be Raised? The Four-Day Workweek Should a Four-Day Workweek Be Adopted? Gig Economy Is the Gig Economy Good for Us? Gold Standard Should the United States Return to a Gold Standard? Minimum Wage Should the Federal Minimum Wage Be Increased? Ridesharing Are Ride-Sharing Apps a Benefit to Society? Social Security Should Social Security Be Privatized? Universal Basic Income (UBI) Should the U.S. Implement a Universal Basic Income? U.S. Penny Should the U.S. Penny Stay in Circulation? Big Three Auto (archived) Should the Big Three Car Manufacturers Be Bailed Out? Churches and Taxes (archived) Should Religious Institutions Remain Tax-Exempt? Insider Trading by Congress (archived) Should Insider Trading by Congress Be Allowed? Holidays Daylight Saving Time Should the U.S. Keep Daylight Saving Time? Fireworks Should Fireworks Be Banned? New Year’s Resolutions Are New Year’s Resolutions Helpful? Santa Claus Is There Really a Santa Claus? Saturday Halloween Should Halloween be Moved Permanently to Saturday? Valentine’s Day Should We Celebrate Valentine’s Day? Immigration & International Scene Cuba Embargo Should the U.S. Maintain Its Embargo Against Cuba? Immigration Should the U.S. Offer a Path to Citizenship for Undocumented Immigrants? Middle East Conflict Explainer Background Resources Sanctuary Cities Are Sanctuary Cities Good for the United States? Drones (archived) Should the U.S. Military Continue Drone Strikes? Israeli-Palestinian Conflict (archived) Top 10 Pro & Con Perspectives on the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict U.S. Drone Shot Down by Iran (archived) Was the U.S. Drone Shot down by Iran over International Waters? U.S.-Iraq War (archived) Should the U.S. Have Attacked Iraq? WTC Muslim Center (archived) Should a Mosque Be Built Near “Ground Zero”? About ProCon Debate Topics About ProCon ProCon in the News ProCon Quizzes Connect with ProCon Facebook X Instagram A Britannica Newsletter Animal Facts is your daily field guide to discovering more about the animals that share this planet. SIGN UP Thank you for signing up! By clicking "Sign Up", you consent to the Britannica Privacy Policy and Terms of Use . Stay Connected Facebook X YouTube Instagram About Us & Legal Info Advertising Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use Equal Opportunity Do Not Sell My Info ©2026 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.
Britannica Money: Where your financial journey begins History & Society Science & Tech Biographies Animals & Nature Geography & Travel Arts & Culture ProCon Games & Quizzes Videos Today in History One Good Fact Dictionary History Philosophy & Religion Politics, Law & Government Society & Social Issues Health & Medicine Science Technology Browse Biographies Birds, Reptiles & Other Vertebrates Environment Fossils & Geologic Time Insects & Other Invertebrates Mammals Plants Geography & Travel Entertainment & Pop Culture Literature Sports & Recreation Visual Arts Image Galleries Podcasts Summaries Top Questions Britannica Kids Personal Finance Investing Trading Retirement Companies Biographies Finance & the Economy Investing AI wants the keys to your portfolio Should you let an algorithm make decisions with your money? Finance & the Economy The economics of the FIFA World Cup: Ticket pricing, tourism revenue, and costs explained Recently Posted McCormick & Company, Inc. American corporation Funding rates in trading How forex, perpetual futures, and traditional futures account for the cost of time. Authorized participants: The hidden mechanics behind ETF pricing How ETFs stay liquid, tax efficient, and fairly priced. Why the cost of fun is less amusing Entertainment is becoming a larger line item in many household budgets. Personal Finance Personal Finance Should you rent or buy your home? Weighing the costs and benefits Planting roots or rolling stone? Understanding different types of life insurance policies Term versus permanent (plus plenty of subtypes). Term life vs. whole life insurance: Which is better for me? Three questions to ask yourself. Investing Investing IPO need-to-knows: Basics of initial public offerings A company’s way to say “hello.” Bond market basics: Here’s what to know Let your comprehension mature. What’s the yield curve? Charting interest rates and the economy Upward, downward, and sideways. Trading Trading 0DTE options trading: High risk or hype? Every weekday is expiration day. Is that a bad thing? Margin account vs. cash account: What to know before you trade Stability and simplicity vs. flexibility and buying power. Ready to roll? Keeping an option strategy intact past expiration Lots of options for rolling options Retirement Retirement What is a reverse mortgage, and should I consider one? Understand the pros and cons. Retirement planning for the self-employed: How to choose between a solo 401(k) and SEP IRA Self-employed? Find a solid retirement savings plan. What is a target-date fund? Pinpoint your investing strategy around a deadline. Companies Companies Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (TSMC) Taiwanese company United Parcel Service American company SoftBank Group Japanese company Biographies Biographies John Jacob Astor American businessman [1763–1848] Walter Bagehot British economist and journalist George Fisher Baker American financier Finance & the Economy Finance & the Economy environmental economics start-up company business dot-com bubble stock market [1995–2000] About Us Privacy Policy Terms & Conditions © 2026 Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc.